We just saw some scenarios in which this whole event based communication architecture seems to totally
fall apart.
In this video, I'm going to answer a couple of questions that you might have about all this stuff right
from the get go.
We'll then take a pause and then we'll go through some possible ways of solving these problems in the
video after this one.
So I'm going to try to keep this video a little bit shorter.
Okay.
So first big question you might have, remember, we are making use of async communication between our
different services.
That's why we're dealing with these event things.
We had said earlier on inside the course that when we are working with microservices, we can have them
communicate asynchronously via events or synchronously with direct requests.
So at this point it might sound like this async communication style is just awful based upon all the
problems I just mentioned.
And you might think that it would be a lot easier if we just stuck to some kind of synchronous communication
approach.
Well, turns out all the same stuff happens with synchronous communications.
So at that point you might say, well, the heck with this microservices stuff.
Let's just go back to building monolith style apps.
Well, it turns out all this stuff actually does happen with monolithic style applications, too.
So let me show you a diagram just to expand on this first point.
All right.
So we're going to imagine that we are building the same kind of money depositing application, but now
we have a more monolith style approach where we are not exchanging events or anything like that.
So now in this scenario, we would imagine that maybe a user makes three requests in a row one request
to deposit 70, deposit 40, and then withdraw 100.
Now, even if we are using some kind of monolith style application, it is still incredibly likely that
we are running multiple instances or copies of that application.
So whenever a user makes these three requests right here, they will probably go to a load balancer
of sorts, and then these requests will essentially be randomly assigned to one of these different instances.
So we can imagine that the first request goes there and the second one to right here and the third one
down here.
So then each of these instances are going to race essentially and try to process that incoming request.
So we might be in that same kind of scenario where maybe instance A and instance B have a lot of traffic
incoming right now, for whatever crazy reason, maybe they are provisioned to some virtual machine
that has lower specs than instance C down here.
For whatever reason, we can very easily imagine that monoliths C down here or instance C might process
this withdraw $100 request first so we would reach into the database, take a look at the user's balance.
Oh, it's zero right now.
Well, once again, we're in some huge error.
So by just going back to some model, the style approach, we still deal with these concurrency issues.
It just turns out that when we start using this microservices event based approach, these same concurrency
issues just become a little bit more prominent because we're now talking about adding in this extra
latency step of the Nats server and we're also talking about the possibility of having automatic retries
or re deliveries of these different events.
So because the system becomes more complex, because there are additional communication jumps inside
of here, this whole concurrency issue just becomes a little bit more prominent.
Well, to be honest, a lot more prominent.
But it's still an issue even if we went back to an old style approach.
So next up, you might come up with an immediate solution.
If I asked you, Hey, solve this problem, here's one possible solution you might decide to come up
with.
There's a very common solution or a solution that people come up with, and then they very quickly realize,
Oh, wait, that won't quite work out.
So when we were going through all these different scenarios that everything would fail, it seemed like
a lot of the issues kind of stemmed from the fact that we had two separate services processing events,
because now there was a scenario where maybe one service was slower than the other or had communication
issues with file storage or whatever else.
So a very common solution people come up with is let's just run one copy of the service, one instance,
think about what would happen if we did that.
So we would say, let's throw that service out.
Now we're just running one copy of the account service.
So now as we start to publish events, deposit, deposit withdrawal, they'll go to hear what process
that process that process that.
Now.
Even then, there's still a possibility of failure here.
For example, this first event, we could have some issue opening up that file because of some temporary
issue with the hard drive.
So we might end up having some issue processing this first event.
We might fail to process it entirely and it gets thrown back over essentially more or less.
It doesn't actually get thrown back over, but we never acknowledge it.
And so Nat's figures that it has to deliver it again, we might then successfully process $40 and then
withdraw of 100 and boom.
We're still back to the same issue as before.
So this is not foolproof, but at least it kind of solves some the issues we ran into when we were running
multiple instances.
That's not the real big issue here, where we still have the possibility of failure.
The big issue is that if we are only going to run one copy of the service now, all of a sudden we've
got a processing bottleneck inside of our application.
If we can only run one copy of the service, well, we are very severely constrained at how quickly
our application can process data and how we can scale it up.
Remember, generally two ways to scale up an application.
We can scale it vertically where we are going to increase the specs that are dedicated or the amount
of CPU and processing power that this service gets or horizontally.
That's where we create more copies of the service.
So if we're going to say right from the outset that we're only going to run one copy of the account
service, all of a sudden we cannot scale horizontally and that can end up being a huge catastrophic
issue down the line as our app starts to get more popular and more traffic.
So I'm going to say solution one.
It's not going to work.
It's not an option.
We always have to assume that we're going to be running multiple copies of any given service.
Okay.
Option number two or possible solution number two, that is also not going to work.
Now, I don't really have a distinct plan here.
This is more just a note that I want to throw out right now very quickly.
So possible solution number two, you might try to figure out every possible concurrency issue inside
of your app and you might decide that, hey, we're going to find all these possible issues and we're
going to write code to solve every single last one.
Well, I just want you to get it in your head right now.
I really want you to internalize this.
Inside of any application, there is an possibly infinite number of concurrency issues.
There can be a lot of different things that could possibly go wrong, and you really feasibly cannot
sit down and write code to handle every last issue.
Now, of course, there are exceptions to this.
If you are building some kind of spaceship or something like that, something that is absolutely critical
in nature, that it always works no matter what.
Of course there are exceptions, but if you are building some kind of like Twitter clone or something
like that, does it really matter if, say, two tweets are out of order?
Does it matter if two tweets are duplicated or forum posts?
Or blog posts.
Does that kind of stuff really matter at the end of the day?
And are you going to dedicate a huge amount of engineering time and money to solve that problem?
Well, I'm going to tell you right now, you're probably not.
So there is a certain point where you might start to identify possible issues and you say, you know
what?
Realistically, that is just not likely to happen.
It's not likely for a user to try to create five tweets at the same time while also deleting two of
them and editing the other three or something like that.
So you really got to sit down and make some engineering judgment.
Is this actually worth trying to solve?
Because a lot of the time you're probably going to inevitably say, No, it's not.
So this isn't really a solution per se.
I just want to throw this out there right away, because even in the app that we are going to build,
you might start to say, Hey, Steven, wait a minute.
In our ticketing application, if a user creates a ticket and then does this and then this and then
this, well, they can end up an issue if the timing is just right and some service fails at the same
time.
Okay.
I accept that there might be holes, there might be gaps.
But again, at the end of the day, we probably cannot write code to capture every single case because,
number one, it might not just might not matter.
Number two, it might just take too much engineering time to fix.
Okay.
So again, kind of short video here.
We're going to it was 8 minutes.
I still failed.
Well, at any rate, let's pause right here.
We're going to come back to the next video and take a look at some possible strategies to solve these
big issues.